# Mentor session 2/6

# Basic data types:

## Character:

- how does drRacket display a character? READING
- What is the relationship between the character and the number? ASCII
- What are some "sub-types" of characters? READING, e.g. digit, letter, whitespace
- What are the procedures related to character, and their 6Ps? READING

## Number:

- how does drRacket display a number?
- What are some "sub-types" of numbers? How do their differences affect the outcome of any procedures? What do they have in common?
- What are the procedures related to numbers, and their 6Ps? READING

## String:

- index and length
```scheme
    (string-ref str pos) ; count starts from 0
    (substring str start end) ; pay attention to whether the start and end are inclusive or exclusive
    (string-length str) ; count starts from 1
```
## Symbol:
```scheme
    (symbol? 's) ; A symbol
    (list? '(s)) ; A list
```
# Data Structure:

## List:

- not a data type, but a data structure.
```scheme
    > (symbol? (car '(+ 2 3)))
    #t
```

# Higher Order Procedure:

## Procedure

- What is a procedure? - function? -method? -algorithm?
- What are the components of a procedure? name of the procedure, parameter, instructions.
- How can we know a variable is a procedure? type in the interactive window and hit enter!
```scheme
    > (lambda (number) (+ number))
    #<procedure>
```
then we assign this <procedure> a name, and then you can use this **unique** name to refer to this <procedure>. 

- How to write a procedure?
- the difference between a procedure and a variable:
```scheme
    > (define house-grid
        (above (beside (simple-house 20) (simple-house 20))
               (beside (simple-house 20) (simple-house 20))))
    
    > (define house-seq
        (lambda ()
          (beside/align "bottom"
                         (simple-house 10) (simple-house 15)
                         (simple-house 20) (simple-house 25))))
    ; the thing, or the method of computation / transform.
```
- why do we need procedures? Reuse,  readability, and abstraction.

## section and composition:

Refer to [Composition, lambda, and section](composition_lambda_and_section.md)

# Others:

## two windows:

- Why do we need a definition window and a interactive window?
- what should go to which? Save for later use → definition window.

## Read documentation and understand the error message
